
# CEG 4110 Fall 2018 Homework 1
This warm-up assignment will ensure that you have completed the
necessary prerequisite installations, research, and experience to
complete the course project this semester. For some of you,
this homework assignment will also be your first experience writing
<b>software</b> that has functionality targeting an end user,
rather than implementing algorithms and data structures.
We recommend using Xcode or the Android Studio IDE depending
on the platform you choose to target. If you are targeting
a framework that builds both iOS and Android feel free to use
any IDE you are comfortable with (Visual Studio, Eclipse, one
of the excellent JetBrains IDE).

Students who complete both parts of this assignment will be
in good shape to complete the semester long project.

## A Simple Mobile Application

You will write a mobile application that performs two functions
(Part 1 and Part 2, below). The two parts functions are separate
from each other, but they should both be implemented in the same
application.

### Part 1
For this first part, you will create a single UI screen having
one text field, centered at the top of the screen, and one button.
The text field will initially display the text
<i>Tap to Change Color</i>. A user should be able to click into the
text field and then type whatever he or she wants through the
device's software keyboard.

Every time the user taps the change color button, the app will generate a
random color using RGB values and then change the text in the
text field to that color. The app will further display the
RGB values of the color chosen in the format COLOR: xr, xg, xb where
x is the value of the color on the red, green and blue channel
respectively. The app must also display the HTML color code
of the color generated. For example:

 COLOR: 255r, 0g, 0b, #FF0000

would be displayed if the random color picker chooses pure Red.

### Part 2
For part 2, you will create a drawing panel for a user.
The UI will give the user the option to select any color. Once selected,
the user will touch the drawing panel to draw with the chosen color
on the screen with their finger.
The UI must also have a mechanism for the user to clear the screen.
The user should be able to save any of their drawings in png or
jpeg file format.

You will create a separate UI for the second part. A user should
be able to easily toggle between the UI's for both part 1 and 2
inside your app.

------------------------------

<b> Feel free to use any external libraries you find useful.</b>
However, do not copy code from any online source. It is one think if
you want to use a color picker you found on a neat Android UI package;
it is another if you simply copy/paste code from some GitHub project
that implements a color picker from scratch.

<u>Note the name of
all external libraries and provide their installation instructions
in the README.md of your deliverable (described below).</u>

## Deliverable Requirements
You will submit:
- A single .tar.gz file containing:
    - One "bin" folder that will house an executable deployable to an
    Andoroid or iOS device. The TA should be able to move your compiled
    executable to his or her device for testing and operation.
    - A link to the GitHub repository where your source code is stored. The   README.md file required with the submission must be posted on the home page of your repository as well. 
    - One "resources" folder that contains any supporting
    files for your software. These are software files and resources that are too large to 
    - One README.md file that explains what your app is, special
    deployment instructions, and simple instructions with screenshots on its operation. The README.md should also include where and how to place any resource files to execute your program. The README.md must also include a section
    that discusses the design of your software. What functionality is
    present in each of your classes? What was the rationale for the
    decisions that you made?

Your grade will be <b>greatly affected</b> by the quality of your
README.md file. Think of this readme as a report associated with this
assignment. Explanations that are too brief or not substantial will
be marked down.

## Grading
Approximately 50% of the credit will be award for part 1.
30% of the credit will be awarded for part 2. 20% of the credit
will be award based on the ease-of-use of your deliverable
and quality of your README.md file.
